# Rain shields

Curious Cat has six portlights: one for each stateroom, plus two midship.  They’re Lewmar Atlantic Size 32, 400mm (15-3/4") by 200mm (7-7/8").  Originally the boat had four or five rain shields that weren’t even for rounded portlights, they were for rectangular ports, and to be honest, looked a bit out of place: old, dirty, mounted on 3M double-sided tape.  Likely a wave big enough could easily knock them off — perhaps that’s why there wasn’t six of them in the first place.  I removed all of that beauty, took them to Hawaii, and donated to Salvation Army in Lahaina.

They were all [PortVisor™ 18-R by Seaworthy Goods](https://seaworthygoods.com/collections/portvisor).  One of the previous owners likely didn’t like rain getting into the boat every time it poured, and closing those portlights and removing flyscreens is no big fun, hence I get the desperation to put at least something and call it a day.  I see they have 17-RE today for $43 a pop, it’s a buck cheaper than 18-R, and fits the shape of the portlight much closer.  Maybe that model wasn’t around back in the day, who knows.  Have to confess, it’s very tempting to splurge a couple hundred on new rain shields, but I’m going to sail back to Hawaii soon, so it’s not a good long-term investment.  I’m thinking of 3D printing something like a flyscreen with that rainshield built into it, so it’d only be there when the portlight is open, not at all times.  My boat is wide enough without those plastic things hanging off her sides.  Maybe I’ll design something compact that gets permanently attached to my portlights and won’t get knocked off whenever I dock or do crossing.

On a side note, it's really shocking how much stuff can be simply picked off by passer-byers on dinghys with little to no effort: parts of winches, helms, sun covers, rain shields, personal flotation devices, fishing rod holders, solar panels, lines, fenders, wind turbines… even propellers can be detached easily from the outside, all you need is a wrench and snorkel mask.
